Question For 2.2.3 : 
1. In the StudentMain class, indicate the line of program code used for the instance process!
What is the name of the resulting object?

2. How do I access the attributes and methods of an object?

3. Why are the output output results of the method 
tampilkanInformasi() first and second
different?

Answer : 

1. the line for instance process is Mahasiswa3 mhs1 = new mahasiswa3():
object than been created is mhs1

2. Attributes and methods are accessed using the dot (.) operator after the object name.
Example:
mhs1.nama
mhs1.tampilkanInformasi();

3. he first and second outputs of tampilkanInformasi() are different because the object's data was changed before the second call. The methods ubahKelas() and updateIPK() modify the values of the class and GPA attributes. Therefore, when tampilkanInformasi() is called the second time, it displays the updated data.

Question For 2.3.3 : 
1. In the Mahasiswa class in practicum 3, indicate the program code line used to declare a
parameterized constructor!

2. Pay attention to the StudentMain class. What exactly does the following line of program do?

3. Remove the default constructor on the Mahasiswa class, and then compile and run the
program. How did it turn out? Explain why this is the case!
Algoritma dan Struktur Data 2025-2026
6
Tim Ajar Algoritma dan Struktur Data 2025-2026
Jurusan Teknologi Informasi-Politeknik Negeri Malang

4. After instantiating the object, do the methods in the Mahasiswa class have to be accessed
sequentially? Explain why!

5. Create a new object with the name mhs<StudentName> using the parameterized constructor
from the Mahasiswa class!

6. Commit and push program code to Github

Answer : 

1. Line of the code used to declare a parameterized construtor : public Mahasiswa3(String nm, String nim, double ipk, String kls)

2. creates a new object named mhs2 using the parameterized constructor and directly initializes the attributes nama, nim, ipk, and kelas with the given values.

3. If the default constructor is removed, the program will produce an error when trying to create an object using:

Mahasiswa3 mhs1 = new Mahasiswa3();

This happens because no constructor without parameters exists anymore. Java cannot create the object without a matching constructor.

4. No, the methods do not have to be accessed sequentially.
After an object is created, methods can be called in any order depending on the program's needs. The order only affects the result if the methods modify the object's data.

5. Done

6. Done